If you want to take your Facebook advertising to the next level the Facebook pixel is really the key
to make that happen.
Now in this lecture I'm going to explain what the Facebook pics the letters what are the benefits of
it and how you can get it set up on your Web site.
We'll look at how to set it up on wordpress.
Hi manager and Shopify.
So let's kick it all off by understanding really what the Facebook pixel is.
It sounds quite technical but it's actually pretty simple.
All it is is a little piece of code that you put onto your Web site.
And once that piece of code is there Facebook can do these three things that are laid out here and these
are the key benefits so they can really start tracking your campaigns and measure real world comes from
your Facebook ads.
So for example say you set up a campaign to drive tough traffic to Web site because you want people
to sign up to an email lefse by downloading a PTF.
Now with out the Facebook pixel you can see how many people from that if you tags ended up converting
and downloading the PD.
But to be much more accurate and just to make the process easier if you install the Facebook pixel on
your site then Facebook will automatically pick up.
Who are those people who actually then went and download the PDAF from the film the traffic that you
received from her at.
So that's the first key benefit is tracking is more accurate than Google Analytics.
Second benefit here is optimization.
So deliver your ads to the right people to get more conversions.
You want to continuing with this same example.
If you do not have the Facebook pixel installed then Facebook cannot optimize your odds for conversions.
They can optimize your odds to get clicks to your website but if they have no way of understanding who
of those people are actually converting then they can't optimize for that.
So with the Facebook pixel you can set the outcome to be optimized for conversions.
And they're really going to get more people to convert or download your PDA rather than just getting
people to come to your Web site.
So a massive benefit because it's driving a more tangible business results.
And the final benefit is audience targeting and with the Facebook pixel you can build audiences from
people who have converted were similar audiences to reach new people.
So for example say that you send people to a Web site and they did end up converting.
You can build an audience of those people who downloaded UPDF and you could remarket them or sell to
them with a product and using that audience who also downloaded the PDA if you could build a look alike
audience using that source audience and to really build from.
So we'll get into that in more details but hopefully in the end the benefits are really clear of creating
the Facebook pics though it's much more powerful in terms of tracking optimization and audience targeting
than just using the built in interest targeting features alone.
So let's get started.
What we need today now that we understand the benefits is start to create our pixel and then to add
it to our Web site.
So let's kick it all off here and click on Create pixel.
So what we are really doing here is creating a pixel for AD account and we can just go ahead and click
next and once we accepted the terms.
Once you've created your Facebook pixel the next step is for you to install your pixel code onto your
Web site and the exact process of doing this will depend on the type of web site that you have.
And the great news is is that Facebook have integrated with a number of platforms.
You can also do this with Google TYG manager and you can do WordPress very easily I'm going to show
you a plug in to get this done very very simply.
Let's run through some of the options and start by looking at this top option here use an integration
or tag manager so you can see that if you have a Shopify store Magento big commers segment Commerce
the process is going to be exactly the same.
Let's have a look at this Shopify example you can just really go and log into Shopify admin panel and
then you just simply need to enter your Facebook pixel ID which you can see here.
So you just want to copy and paste this ID and then you just need to click save and then you come back
to your Facebook Ads manager select pixels and just make sure that this is active and I'll show you
how to do that.
And at the end of this video what you can also do is email these instructions to anybody if to some
of the Nicole who works on your website or does the back end stuff you can just email the instructions
to them and you can also see that she picks the lady shows up right here very clearly.
So any trouble just come into the Shopify you can see the picture of the lady right here.
Let's go back and have a look at these.
There is there are ways to add it to your site quickly.
Let's have a look at one of the other options which is Google tag manager.
Now there's probably no need to set this up just to install the Facebook pixel.
But it is worth taking a minute or two just to explain what the google time manager is.
Because it is something that comes up again and again.
And so it's important just for you to understand what it is the way it works is instead of you putting
the Facebook pixel directly onto your Web site what you actually do is put one piece of code for Google
type manager onto your Web site and then with Google TYG manager to which you log into separately you
can create a new tag and you can paste the code for the Facebook pixel.
Here you can also see that you can paste the code for all of these other integrations as well.
We show you here Google Analytics Google odd words double quick.
All of these are the ones the purpose of this is that by not adding all loads of separate codes to your
Web site you're not going to slow your website down.
And also a lot of people don't have access to the back end of the company web site.
It's only for technical people.
And so through Google type manager you can add these codes without needing access to the back and the
Web site and that prevents a lot of people breaking code by trying to install these pixels and Google
Analytics stuff themselves that they just need for marketing purposes.
So that's a bit of a tangent we just went on there but the purpose of that is really just to explain
walkable time manager is it's a way just to put code on your Web site what actually I putting code onto
your Web site if that makes sense.
Now as I said don't set it up if you haven't got it set up already because there are easier options
and will go back to that here.
So probably the easiest option is just to copy and paste the code in yourself and what you will need
to do is come back and actually copy this code here and then you will need to paste the pixel code at
the bottom of the header section of every page that you want.
Now the great news is is that you've got if you've got a WordPress site you don't need to copy and paste
this in all the time.
There's a simple plug in that you can use what you first might want to do is come down to click on e-mail
instructions here and just copy the pixel ID because this is what you need to put into your website.
So in order to add this to your WordPress website the first thing that you want to do is download this
free plug in.
It's called pixel Kaffeine by Add espresso an only on thing to do is just click on the download button
to download the plug and then you come into the back end of your WordPress website and you come in to
plug ins you can come into our new and then all you need to do is come into upload the plug in you can
come to choose the file here downloads you can see pics of caffeine you just install out once that's
activated it's going to show up in the sidebar of your Wordpress dashboard here so I can see pics of
caffeine and then all I need to do is just to set this up and impose my pixel ID then I just need to
come down here and say click save.
And then up the top here I'm just going to enable us to make sure that it's active and I'm going to
say this again.
Once you've added the Facebook pixel to your Web site the next step is just to make sure that it's working.
So to do that come back into your Facebook cad's manager click on the top left hand corner here and
you'll see this option for pixels here.
If not just come comment.
All tools under assets.
You're going to see it linked again here and you can just click on that.
Coming up to the top right hand corner I can see it's green so it's active and that a signal was received
60 Minutes ago when I set it up so that is perfect.
It's all in place if you want to be extra sure that is set up correctly.
There is another cool tool that you can use.
It's called The Facebook pic so helper.
It is a chrome extension that you just need to download and it'll appear here in the top of your browser.
Once it's set up now the advantage of this is once you log into your web site you can just click this
open here on the Facebook pixel helper icon I can see that one pixel was found on my web site so I know
for sure it's definitely working.
And this is a great little to not only for confirming it to Facebook pixel is working on your own site
but also having a look behind the scenes at some competitors or big companies in your industry.
For example I can come into these Web sites and to sleep dot com I can see here in my fix fix Facebook
pixel helper icon that there are two pixels fand and I can also see to start to see some of the custom
parameters that they have built into their pixel.
Now this is getting a little bit more advanced.
Again we're not going to go into that right now but this is a great little 2.
If you get heavy into advertising you want to take a look.
Competitors do they have their Facebook pixel's set up you can even do this and check out some blogs
that you follow.
See if they've got the pace Facebook pixel set up it's an interesting little tool to have.
So I just wanted to share it there.
So never know what the Facebook pixel is.
Go ahead and add it to your own web site so you can start getting better tracking optimization.
And audiences for your Facebook campaign.
I'll put these couple of links to the Facebook pixel helper and the pixel caffeine WordPress tool in
the resource sources of this lecture.
So you can easily access them as well.